README.md, before:

# LED-Pi Custom Component for Home Assistant

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/license/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration/Python%20package?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration/actions)
[![](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration/)
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/muhlba91" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="28" width="150"></a>

This component creates an integration that provides **raffstore/shutter entities** to control
[Hella's ONYX.CENTER](https://www.hella.info/) via Home Assistant.

---

## Limitations

This integration is under development and based on personal needs and Hella's API design and Home Assistant's
interpretation of values diverges in a few aspects.

Therefore, a few limitations are imposed on/by this integration:

| Limitation | Description | Bound By |
|------------|-------------|----------|
| Fingerprint, Access Token Authentication | The API requires the ONYX.CENTER fingerprint and an access token. Basically, those can be retrieved programmatically, which is not implemented yet. | Personal Needs |
| Shutter Position | Home Assistant takes the position 0 as closed and 100 as open, Hella the opposite. | Home Assistant |
| Tilt Position | Home Assistant takes the position 0 as closed and 100 as open, Hella's values range between 0-90 and 0-180. | Home Assistant, Hella [<sup>1</sup>](https://github.com/hella-info/onyx_api/issues/2) |
| Realtime Updates to Position Changes | The ONYX API polls devices approx. every 5 minutes but does not provide realtime updates. Therefore, setting a position in Home Assistant also triggers a timer sending a STOP command to force an update of the device's current value. | Hella [<sup>2</sup>](https://github.com/hella-info/onyx_api/issues/3) |

## Installation

I recommend installation through [HACS](https://hacs.xyz/):

- Ensure HACS is installed.
- Add this repository (`https://github.com/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration.git`) as a custom repository with the
  category *Integration*.
- Search for and install the "Hella ONYX.CENTER" integration.

### Releases / Versions

The integration offers the following possibilities:

- `master`: the latest stable release
- `next`: the next, cutting-edge release (**attention**: may be unstable)
- releases following semantic versioning: if you need to pin the version, choose one of those

## Configuration

Add it from the **Integrations menu**, set the configuration, and you're good to go.

| Configuration Key | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| Fingerprint | Your ONYX.CENTER fingerprint (see below). |
| Access Token | The access token (see below). |
| Scan Interval | Interval for polling for updates. |

**Important!** Please read **[ONYX.CENTER API's Access Control](https://github.com/hella-info/onyx_api#access-control)**
on how to retrieve the **fingerprint** and **access token**.

Once configured, the integration **creates shutter entities** for:

| Entity | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Cover | Manage the shutter. ([API Reference](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity/cover/)) |

---

## Development

The project uses [poetry](https://poetry.eustace.io/) and to install all dependencies and the build environment, run:

```bash
$ pip install poetry
$ poetry install
```

### Testing

1) Install all dependencies as shown above.
2) Run `pytest` by:

```bash
$ poetry run pytest
# or
$ pytest
```

### Linting and Code Style

The project uses [flakehell](https://github.com/life4/flakehell) as a wrapper for flake8,
and [black](https://github.com/psf/black) for automated code style fixing, also
using [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/).

1) Install all dependencies as shown above.
2) (Optional) Install pre-commit hooks:

```bash
$ poetry run pre-commit install
```

3) Run black:

```bash
$ poetry run black .
```

4) Run flakehell:

```bash
$ poetry run flakehell lint
```

### Commit Message

This project follows [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/), and your commit message must also
adhere to the additional rules outlined in `.conform.yaml`.

---

## Release

To draft a release, use [standard-version](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/standard-version):

```bash
$ standard-version
# alternatively
$ npx standard-version
```

Finally, push with tags:

```bash
$ git push --follow-tags
```

**Note:** releasing is automated through the `master` branch!

---

## Contributions

Please feel free to contribute, be it with Issues or Pull Requests! Please read
the [Contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Supporting

If you enjoy the application and want to support my efforts, please feel free to buy me a coffe. :)

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/muhlba91" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="75" width="300"></a>

Commit message:

feat: include drive direction analysis

README.md, after:

# LED-Pi Custom Component for Home Assistant

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/license/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration/Python%20package?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration/actions)
[![](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration/)
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/muhlba91" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="28" width="150"></a>

This component creates an integration that provides **raffstore/shutter entities** to control
[Hella's ONYX.CENTER](https://www.hella.info/) via Home Assistant.

---

## Limitations

This integration is under development and based on personal needs and Hella's API design and Home Assistant's
interpretation of values diverges in a few aspects.

Therefore, a few limitations are imposed on/by this integration:

| Limitation | Description | Bound By |
|------------|-------------|----------|
| Fingerprint, Access Token Authentication | The API requires the ONYX.CENTER fingerprint and an access token. Basically, those can be retrieved programmatically, which is not implemented yet. | Personal Needs |
| Shutter Position | Home Assistant takes the position 0 as closed and 100 as open, Hella the opposite. | Home Assistant |
| Tilt Position | Home Assistant takes the position 0 as closed and 100 as open, Hella's values range between 0-90 and 0-180. | Home Assistant |
| Realtime Updates to Position Changes | The ONYX API polls devices approx. every 5 minutes but does not provide realtime updates. Therefore, setting a position in Home Assistant also triggers a timer sending a STOP command to force an update of the device's current value. | Hella [<sup>2</sup>](https://github.com/hella-info/onyx_api/issues/3) |

### Drive Direction

Hella offers a switch called "Change Drive Direction". Using this reverses opening and closing actions.

This integration uses the value of this setting to invert the position and tilt angle. Therefore, if you encounter weird
behaviour of raffstores/shutters showing the exact inverse of available actions, please check this property.

## Installation

I recommend installation through [HACS](https://hacs.xyz/):

- Ensure HACS is installed.
- Add this repository (`https://github.com/muhlba91/onyx-homeassistant-integration.git`) as a custom repository with the
  category *Integration*.
- Search for and install the "Hella ONYX.CENTER" integration.

### Releases / Versions

The integration offers the following possibilities:

- `master`: the latest stable release
- `next`: the next, cutting-edge release (**attention**: may be unstable)
- `v*`: releases following semantic versioning - if you need to pin the version, choose one of those

## Configuration

Add it from the **Integrations menu**, set the configuration, and you're good to go.

| Configuration Key | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| Fingerprint | Your ONYX.CENTER fingerprint (see below). |
| Access Token | The access token (see below). |
| Scan Interval | Interval for polling for updates. |

**Important!** Please read **[ONYX.CENTER API's Access Control](https://github.com/hella-info/onyx_api#access-control)**
on how to retrieve the **fingerprint** and **access token**.

Once configured, the integration **creates shutter entities** for:

| Entity | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Cover | Manage the shutter. ([API Reference](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity/cover/)) |

---

## Development

The project uses [poetry](https://poetry.eustace.io/) and to install all dependencies and the build environment, run:

```bash
$ pip install poetry
$ poetry install
```

### Testing

1) Install all dependencies as shown above.
2) Run `pytest` by:

```bash
$ poetry run pytest
# or
$ pytest
```

### Linting and Code Style

The project uses [flakehell](https://github.com/life4/flakehell) as a wrapper for flake8,
and [black](https://github.com/psf/black) for automated code style fixing, also
using [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/).

1) Install all dependencies as shown above.
2) (Optional) Install pre-commit hooks:

```bash
$ poetry run pre-commit install
```

3) Run black:

```bash
$ poetry run black .
```

4) Run flakehell:

```bash
$ poetry run flakehell lint
```

### Commit Message

This project follows [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/), and your commit message must also
adhere to the additional rules outlined in `.conform.yaml`.

---

## Release

To draft a release, use [standard-version](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/standard-version):

```bash
$ standard-version
# alternatively
$ npx standard-version
```

Finally, push with tags:

```bash
$ git push --follow-tags
```

**Note:** releasing is automated through the `master` branch!

---

## Contributions

Please feel free to contribute, be it with Issues or Pull Requests! Please read
the [Contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Supporting

If you enjoy the application and want to support my efforts, please feel free to buy me a coffe. :)

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/muhlba91" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="75" width="300"></a>
